Guide to Making Custom Venues

**To make a custom venue, you must know how to use
  Valve's Hammer Level Editor (SourceSDK)

**Additional note, you must have a copy of Hammer!

Some good tutorials and articles about Hammer are
at: http://developer.valvesoftware.com/wiki/SDK_Docs

A great beginner tutorial is at:
http://developer.valvesoftware.com/wiki/Your_First_Map



Okay, you are making your venue in Hammer, but making
a venue is a bit different than making a HL2 map.

For one thing, I didn't develop the Hammer editor, so
I don't have the full technical specs, and can only do
the best I can. As such, there are some odd things you
have to do.



IMPORTANT NOTES: (in order of importance)

Any surface that will not be seen, USE THE NO_DRAW TEXTURE!!!
I cannot stress this one enough!

Any surface that is not Axis aligned (it is slanted in some
way) you must go to the material editor, and check the box
"Align to Face"

Go ahead and use the default materials from HL2.  We will 
replace these later in the guide outside of Hammer. Just
remember what's what.



List of Entities that are valid:

info_target
light_spot
npc_citizen
npc_combine_s
point_camera



How to use these entities:

Camera Interpolations

In-game, the camera will fly around the venue, looking at the
band. This is done utilizing the point_camera entity.  For every
set of positions (we only support 2 per blend right now) there
are multiple point_cameras. Each point_camera should be rotated
to point where you want it to point.
The name is the most important part.  The name should start with
"viewCam"  The next letter tells the program how long of a blend
this should be.  Valid letters are 'E'(Extended), 'L'(Long),
'N'(Normal), 'S'(Short), and 'F'(Flash).  The next value will be
the index of the camera.  You may have as many cameras as you want
(and often, variety is good) as long as they start at 1 and do not
skip indices.  After this should be an underscore ('_') and the
blend value.  The blend value tells the program what part of the
blend it is.  If it is '0', it is the very beginning of the blend.
The end is the highest number entered for that camera index. Since
Unsigned only supports 2 cameras per index, 0=start and 1=end 
should do just fine.
Note: you need to have at least 2 of each type of blend (ELNSF)!


Rockers

Rockers are easy to add to your venue.  Simply place an 
npc_combine_s, rotate it to look at the crowd, and change the name
to one of the following: "guitarist" "bassist" "drummer" "vocalist"
Please only one of each!


Crowds

This will be used to generate the crowd. Not yet implemented.


Lights

We use light_spot for lights because most venues have spot lights!
When placing spot lights, it is best to put them near the back of
the Venue, near, or hanging from the ceiling.  Their direction is
irrelevant, as lights use info_targets to aim.  There are 3 types
of lights: "normal", "strobe", "sweep" and "spot" (which is the 
light that will follow rockers around).  Each light also has
an index. Unlike cameras, each light type has it's own numbering.
This means that for each type, you will start the index over at
'1'.  So, for each light you will have, for the name, "[type]_[index]"
(e.g. "sweep_4").  Please note the game can only render 6 lights
at a time right now. Some good numbers for how many lights to
place are: Sweep:4-6, Normal:1-2, Strobe:1-2.  Also, for the
lights, the inner and outer angles are used in-game.
Now for targets. For "normal" and "strobe "lights", you only need 
one target.  When you make it, give it the same name as the 
corresponding light_spot.  "spot" lights, do not need a target.
"sweep" lights however, need multiple targets.  Right now, Unsigned
only supports 2.  They are named the same as the light_spot, except
with a letter at the end to indicate blend value. 'a' is the start,
'z' is the end.  (e.g. "sweep_1a")


CompileData File

Once you have the map, we will make a new txt file called
"[mapname].txt" in the same directory as the list

The first thing we will do is Material Replacement. As we
work in Hammer, we use all kinds of temporary HL2 materials.
Now we need to apply our own.  There is a list in the root
directory that lists and describes the current textures.

All material replacement information needs to be between 
curly brackets. So start with:

tex
{

}

Now, inside tex, each texture in the venue will have a 3
line chunk.  the first line is the Valve texture name
(e.g. "WOOD/WOODWALL006A").  The next line is the Unsigned
texture name (find in texList.txt).  And finally is a floating
point value that scales the the all instances of the texure in
the game.  "1" is the default.

Next is the Map Scale:

scale
{
	value
}

The scaling value will scale all of the map's geometry.  If
the map in Hammer was built to the scale of HL2 characters,
then a value of about 0.8 will suffice.

Finally is the clipping bounds:

clip
{
	near
	far
}

The clipping bounds tell how much the camera should view.  The
near is usually about 10-20, and the far is the maximum distance
you can see. To find the maximum, go to the farthest corner of
your venue, and find the distance to the opposite corner.  If you
see blue triangles at far away points, this is indicative that
the 'far' isnt far enough.  If edges are jagged and flicker, it
is indicative that the near and far are too far seperated.



GBW File

Okay! You are ready to compile your venue! All you need to do is
drag the VMF file to the venuecompiler.exe icon.  A Black console
screen should pop up, and dissappear fairly quickly and then you
will notice a GBW venue file in the directory of the VMF!